>>>>[BACKGROUND MUSIC] And
I think many people today
don't know what to
believe anymore.
>>People are basically
going to keep on
to help uncover what
really happened.
>>I felt like something
was watching me.
>>We weren't given
all the information.
We weren't told
the entire story.
>>STEVE BASSETT: I'm Steve
Bassett, the executive director
of Paradigm Research Group
and the executive director
of X-PPAC, a political
action committee devoted
to the politics surrounding
the extraterrestrial presence
and the government truth
embargo about that.
The government's not
telling you the truth
about the ET presence, if
you don't already know that.
I invite you to go to Paradigm
Research Group's website
at www.paradigmresearchgroup.org
or www.x-ppac.org and read
about this issue.
Read about the politics.
Read about the work
that's been done.
Review articles.
Explore an enormous
bibliography, as well as
quotes by people of
high rank and station.
You will quickly figure out
there's something to this.
This is real.
This is transcendent.
And with your help, we can bring
about the disclosure event,
where the United States
government finally admits
to this ET presence and lets
us all in on what's easily
the most extraordinary
transition and event
in human history.
We need to do this now,
because the world's not
getting a nicer place to live.
Things are not getting better.
They're getting worse.
And part of the reason is too
many important things are being
withheld from the
people of the world
about the world they live in
so they can make decisions
about their nation, about their
religion, about their actions.
What do they want to
do with their lives?
Do they want to hate?
Do they want to kill?
Or do they want to take
this planet forward,
solve the environment,
and maybe even enter
a galactic community?
Think about this.
You could be part of the most
profound and extraordinary
moment in history.
But first, you've
got to get informed.
Thanks.
>>GEORGE NOORY: And
welcome to this edition
of "Beyond Belief."
What you just saw
was Stephen Basset,
who has spent his life
trying to break the truth
embargo about what
the government knows
about extraterrestrials
and that presence.
With us tonight,
Stephen Bassett.
Stephen, always a pleasure.
>>BASSETT: Yes, indeed.
>>NOORY: How many
years have you and I
been talking about
the truth embargo?
Gosh, it's got to
be 16, 17 years.
>>BASSETT: It's basically--
yeah, almost 18 years.
I started talking
to you when you
were on the show in St. Louis.
>>NOORY: In St. Louis.
Yes, that's right.
And you were doing this even
before that, weren't you?
>>BASSETT: A bit before.
I entered the field
on January the 26th
of 1996, when I
arrived at the offices
of the Program for
Extraordinary Experience
Research in Cambridge
that was set up
by Dr. John Mack to
study contactees--
>>NOORY: God rest his soul.
>>BASSETT: Yes, indeed.
A great man.
And it was four months.
And it was amazing just
to be around that work
and be around Dr. Mack a bit.
And he gave me a lot of energy.
But it was from there that I
left and went to Washington
and arrived on July
the 4th of 1996--
>>NOORY: Fitting.
>>BASSETT: Why not-- and set
up the Paradigm Research Group
and registered as a lobbyist on
this issue, the first to do so.
And the political press
check all those lobbying
registrations.
And when they saw mine and
they saw "extraterrestrial,"
they came out to interview me.
>>NOORY: They loved that.
>>BASSETT: Got a
front-page article
in the business section of the
Post, and the rest is history.
>>NOORY: You've never
given up, Stephen, ever.
>>BASSETT: Well, no.
Usually, when you're
an activist and you
get involved in a major
issue, it's hard to leave it.
It's hard to go, OK,
I've given it 10 years.
And think of the
Civil Rights Movement.
Most of the people that got
involved in the Civil Rights
Movement in the
'40s and '50s, they
were not going to stop until
they got the Civil Rights Act.
>>NOORY: Until they
got the solution.
Gotcha.
>>BASSETT: Sometimes
you don't make it.
We've lost a lot of colleagues
in the last 18 months,
which always pains me.
But I happen to believe
that the goal is doable,
that ending this truth
embargo can happen.
It could happen this year.
It could happen early next year.
There's a lot of
reasons for that.
I talk about this
all over the world.
And so I don't feel too
bad about 18 years in.
But did I think it
would take this long?
No.
But I understand why it did.
>>NOORY: Stephen, what do you
suspect the government knows
about the
extraterrestrial presence?
>>BASSETT: A lot.
They've known about
the ET presence
since the-- probably the Foo
Fighter events of World War II.
And there's some evidence,
maybe, even before that,
going back into the
very late 1930s.
They were certainly
aware by early '47.
They had a crash
vehicle and bodies
and a living alien turn
up in the Roswell area
in July of '47.
That's a lot right there.
And then, of course,
from then, they've
been engaging the issue
with all their might
and all their resources in
deep secrecy for 67 years.
I assure you, they
know a huge amount.
>>NOORY: Isn't it
amazing that they've
been able to keep a lid
on this for so long?
>>BASSETT: I've said
many times, it's
the most extraordinary
manipulation
of public perception in
the history of humanity.
Look, propaganda and governments
lying to their people--
>>NOORY: They do
it all the time.
>>BASSETT: They do
Goes back forever.
But you go back a
few thousand years,
and it's the king
and his court lying
to a bunch of poor peasants
that can't read or write.
They have had to contain
this issue for 67 years
with a highly educated
public, with increasing,
multiplying media,
in a country that
has some pretty good laws
about freedom of speech
and everything else and
freedom of the press,
and pulled it off.
It was an amazing
accomplishment.
Now, the Catholic church was
able to suppress the Copernican
Revolution for about 200 years.
But they weren't up against
what our government's been up
against since '47.
And so I applaud them.
It was great.
But it needs to end.
>>NOORY: What are
they afraid of?
>>BASSETT: Look, fundamentally,
it's all national security.
All of this started
in '47, pretty much.
That's the big explosion
of the modern era because
of all the sightings
that emerged.
Kenneth Arnold's
the most famous.
>>NOORY: They
couldn't hide that.
>>BASSETT: Yeah, thousands
all over the world.
And this is happening
while they're
completing the work on
their hydrogen bomb.
They know the Soviets are going
to be testing the atom bomb
soon, their own hydrogen bomb.
They know they have
a major foe there.
There's an Iron
Curtain across Europe.
And I'm sure the national
security analysts were assuming
that the Second World
War, as all wars do,
had already set the stage
for the Third World War.
But this would be a
nuclear world war.
This is kind of a big problem
that they were facing.
And these are very important,
powerful, intelligent men,
pretty much all men, that were
running the national security
structures.
And suddenly, they've
got a crashed vehicle,
alien technology, and bodies.
And they've got sightings
all over the world.
>>NOORY: Put in their lap.
>>BASSETT: In the lap,
in the middle of this.
And so what?
They're going to just run right
out and say, oh, yeah, yeah,
there's aliens here, too.
And we don't know what
Stalin's going to do.
And maybe we're going
to have a nuclear war?
No.
So they had to contain this.
And initially, it wasn't easy.
And they made a lot of mistakes.
But they got better
and better at it,
until they knew more
about this ET reality
and they knew more
where this situation was
going to go with
the Soviet Union.
Totally understandable
and totally legal,
which is why I have
discontinued the use
in my world of a cover-up.
It wasn't a cover-up.
It was a truth embargo.
It was a policy of containment.
It was legal.
Did they know that we weren't
going to have a World War III,
but we were going
to have a Cold War,
and it was going to last 44
years and cost $10 trillion?
No.
They didn't know that.
>>NOORY: No way.
>>BASSETT: And so as the Cold
War develops and got worse year
after year, the national
security issue was paramount.
And so anybody inside would
raise their hand and say,
maybe it's time to tell the
people about those ET things
that we're dealing with?
>>NOORY: And somebody
would say, no, no.
>>BASSETT: And they'd say,
are you out of your mind?
And so the fact is
that, by the time
the Cold War finally
ends in late '91,
the truth embargo, which they
had worked so assiduously
to develop, was
institutionalized.
It basically ran itself.
It was part of our culture.
You didn't cover that.
You didn't say that.
You didn't go there.
You didn't speak that.
You didn't say that word.
It was just understood.
Too awkward.
And there wasn't a
compelling reason
do it, because, by and
large, in the lives of most
Americans, the presence
of extraterrestrials
doesn't really mean anything
to them on a day-to-day basis.
It doesn't affect their lives.
And so the truth
embargo, since '91,
has been pretty much moving
forward on sheer momentum,
though they're still doing a lot
to keep things under control.
But that momentum
is running out.
And the ability to maintain the
embargo is also running out.
So it's near the end, I
believe, of its life span.
>>NOORY: When I
think back, Steve,
to the '60s, when
I was a little boy,
and I was into UFOs
even at that time,
ever since my mother brought
home this book by Walter
Sullivan, who was the then "New
York Times" science editor,
"We Are Not Alone,"
and then "Look"
magazine did its
"Interrupted Journey"
spread on Betty
and Barney Hill--
>>BASSETT: I read that.
>>NOORY: --the abduction
case out of New Hampshire,
I was hooked.
But it seemed, at that
time, that society
seemed to handle UFO stories
a little better than they
do today.
You're one of the rare
breeds that keeps this alive.
But heck, I remember
people like Frank Edwards
writing his incredible
books on UFOs.
I remember Project Blue
Book and J. Allen Hynek
and the seriousness
of investigating--
>>BASSETT: Sure.
>>NOORY: --even though it may
have been a cover-up there.
But it just seemed
like the media
and the people really seemed to
be into UFO reports and stories
back in the '60s and '70s.
Then it seemed to die away.
>>BASSETT: Yeah.
Look, if you were to examine
the whole history of the truth
embargo, going back to
'47, you can divide it up
into kind of sections.
The way things were going--
being conducted, say, from '47
to '67-- actually, '69,
when they closed down
Blue Book-- was one era.
And then, from '69 to '91
is another, and '91 forward.
In the early days,
the truth embargo
took awhile to put together.
This was not
something easy to do.
In fact, they were kind of lazy
about it between '47 and '52.
They had things under control.
They had changed the
story at Roswell.
Everything was fine.
And then, of course,
the ETs started
turning up over
Washington in July of '52,
and that scared them to death.
>>NOORY: '52, huge story.
>>BASSETT: They held
the Robertson Panel,
reanalyzed everything, and
then got really serious.
But in those days, you had Helen
Cotter on the board of NICAP,
you had top scientists being--
hearing lectures from Dr. James
McDonnell all over the country.
So it was in a
kind of transition
where the embargo was
starting to be put together.
But at the same time, plenty
of serious people were going,
this needs to be examined.
And of course, the government
wanted that serious to stop
and for their
program to continue.
So in those days,
it was different.
And it could very well
have gone the other way.
It's possible that
the truth embargo
could have ended by '69.
>>NOORY: Right then.
>>BASSETT: But it didn't happen.
And there's something else that
was very different back then.
This may be hard for you to
remember, but try very hard.
Back then, particularly, I
think, between certainly 1947
and 1962, '63, people
trusted their government.
>>NOORY: They did.
>>BASSETT: Do you remember that?
>>NOORY: Until
Kennedy was killed--
>>BASSETT: Very vague, I know.
>>NOORY: --people
trusted their government.
>>BASSETT: I recall it.
Yeah, they trusted the
government, actually
at a pretty high level.
And if the government
was doing something,
you accepted that, you'd
try to go along with it,
you'd try to be supportive.
Now, that ship has sailed.
But that made it
much easier for them
to maintain this-- to develop
the basis for this embargo
and get it underway.
Now--
>>NOORY: Totally opposite.
>>BASSETT: --67 years
later, trust in government's
collapsed.
>>NOORY: It's gone.
>>BASSETT: We're in
another world now.
And so they could never
have started and maintained
the truth embargo they launched
back then in this environment.
>>NOORY: I'm not sure, if
the government came out
today and said,
we've been visited,
people would believe
them anymore.
>>BASSETT: Well, all right--
>>NOORY: Because we
doubt everything.
>>BASSETT: That's
an irony, isn't it?
Yes.
>>NOORY: It is.
>>BASSETT: But the fact is is
that it's not like they're just
going to send out a memo
and do nothing else.
If the disclosure event,
which we've talked about,
which is the formal
acknowledgement of ET
presence-- it's not a process;
it's the event, capital D,
it will be done with
a lot of splash.
There will be evidence
provided, material
that maybe our researchers
don't even have.
>>NOORY: Gosh, but they're
going to have to explain
the deception--
>>BASSETT: That's later.
>>NOORY: --over all these years.
We're talking about getting the
fundamental issue out there.
>>NOORY: So they're just
going to announce it first.
And when they do--
>>BASSETT: And they're going
to provide the evidence.
And I can assure you that, in
this case, particularly given
how much has already been
accomplished by the citizen
science and the
activists-- we've
built up a massive
amount of evidence.
The people are already there.
So when the government finally
says the ETs are really here
and acknowledges it, they are
actually going to believe that.
And this is why this activism
gets really important,
because, when you have
a situation this bad,
when you have
multi-system dysfunction
across your whole society,
where everything is coming apart
and people are
starting to-- when
one of the lead shows
in reality right
now is "Preppers," people that
are preparing for the end,
and at the core of that is
an institutionalized distrust
from the people, a break
of the social contract,
there is only one way
you fix that, George.
It's the same thing
if you have a kid.
If you have a teenager
and he's been lying to you
or she's been lying to
you for a couple of years,
and the relationship
is being destroyed,
there is only one
way that gets fixed.
The child has to start telling
the truth to the parent,
and vice versa.
>>NOORY: And it's going to
take you time to believe them.
>>BASSETT: And they have to do
it not once, but twice, many
times.
That is the only way.
Now, interestingly
enough, Washington, DC,
in its infinite
wisdom, as it started
to confront this
emerging problem
of institutionalized lying
and a collapse of trust,
got together and
said, we have got
to make a concerted
effort to lie better.
If we could lie better, we
could get them back on our side.
Wrong.
So what happens if
we are successful
and the government finally
essentially announces
the most profound
truth in human history?
You know what's going to happen?
They're going to get such
positive feedback from hundreds
of millions of people
around the world.
They're going to send them
congratulation notes and stuff.
They're going to
say, they like us.
>>NOORY: It may build government
credibility back up again.
>>BASSETT: It
starts the process.
And once you get that going,
sort of like, you know,
you tell the truth,
they like you.
Let's tell them more truths.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>BASSETT: They'll
like us even more.
>>NOORY: This is fun.
>>BASSETT: Now, this
sounds kind of silly.
But it's not silly.
There is only one way
back from where we are.
The government, the president,
the Congress, the corporations,
the IMF, the Fed, all
of these institutions,
have got to start telling the
truth about the way things are,
even if it's bad.
You know, if they had told us
the truth about the emerging
financial debacles that we
were headed towards in 2008,
about the situation
with the housing,
with the derivatives
and everything else,
we would have been upset,
but the American people
might have gotten
together and started
pressing for
solutions, for reform.
And we might have gotten some
help and some solutions there
and wouldn't had
this catastrophe.
But if you don't know you've
got cancer, how do you cure it?
>>NOORY: It's going to
be a lot a work, though.
Even the 9/11 situation,
whether you believe it was just
these fundamentalists that did
it or government was involved,
it's going to take a long time
to build up this faith again.
>>BASSETT: Yeah.
That's a really
particularly sticky wicket.
One of the nice things
about the truth embargo
is that there is so much
positive associated with it.
There's not a lot of
positive with the government
finally coming out
and saying, here's
the real truth about 911.
Mostly, there are just a lot
of indictments and prison
sentences.
But with the case
of the ET issue,
the announcement of the
extraterrestrial presence
opens up a vast array
of new possibilities
for the human race.
This is positive.
This is extraordinary.
So this upside is what I think
makes this the one to go.
If you want to tell a big
truth and start getting back
in the truth business,
pick this one
if you're inside
government, because there's
so much upside that it
will mitigate the downside.
And there's plenty of that,
plenty of explaining to do.
>>NOORY: And it's exciting.
>>BASSETT: Oh, god, yes.
>>NOORY: It's exciting.
>>BASSETT: Is there
anything more exciting?
>>NOORY: It opens up
science and technology.
Of course, people are going to
start asking for free energy.
If they can do
it, what about us?
>>BASSETT: Of course they are.
And they're going to
get it, hopefully.
It won't be free, but
it'll be damn cheap.
In other words,
aside from the fact
the disclosure could
lead to contact--
and I don't mean
covert contact; I
mean open contact-- there's
plenty of contact going on,
George, but it's not on CNN.
It's in people's bedrooms.
That's another problem.
>>NOORY: That's another issue.
We'll address that later.
>>BASSETT: If it
leads to open contact,
that theoretically could lead
to technology exchange that
could be transformative.
But even without that,
there's enough in our labs
right now that they've
spent billions developing,
researching,
re-engineering, which
they have to hold close,
because truth embargo, right?
>>NOORY: Can't announce it.
>>BASSETT: No way they could
come out and say, guess what?
We have figured out
antigravitic drive.
>>NOORY: Exactly.
>>BASSETT: And we have craft.
But it has nothing
to do with ETs.
No one's going to believe that.
>>NOORY: You remember
these computer chips?
Guess where they came from.
>>BASSETT: So they know
they can't do that.
And so they have to
hang onto the technology
until the truth embargo ends.
But they won't end
the truth embargo.
And so we're all wrapped--
it's a giant Gordian Knot.
And the advocacy movement's
job is to do what Alexander did
and cut that knot, just cut it.
And you cut it by just
saying, yes, there's
extraterrestrials here.
And could you give
us a couple of weeks
before the next
press conference?
We need to get our
information in order.
That's kind of what's going on.
>>NOORY: Stephen,
let's go back to 1947.
And also, you have looked
at three major UFO cases
that you believe may be at
the top of the truth embargo--
Roswell, Rendlesham
in the United Kingdom,
and the Phoenix Lights.
>>BASSETT: Well, they
are three very powerful,
well-known examples
in which the cat
was trying to get out
of the bag, no question.
So they're important.
>>NOORY: So '47, Roswell.
>>BASSETT: Well,
Roswell is the event.
It is the best known, probably
most significant event.
Now, it may not be
the most important
in terms of other factors.
But it is the event where the
average person, even around
the world, has
connected to this issue,
so much so they have
a festival there.
People go in the
thousands every year.
>>NOORY: 67 years
now, this year.
>>BASSETT: 67 years.
And it has everything.
Of course, several movies
have been done about it.
And there'll be
more movies done.
But essentially,
a vehicle crashes.
And it crashes near Roswell.
Civilians get there first.
Some people are contacted.
It's '47.
Even though it's the only
nuclear air base in the world,
it hasn't probably been fully
briefed on the whole ET thing.
In other words, while they
may have known before '47
that this ET thing
is real, that doesn't
mean they're sending
out memos to everybody
in the Army and the Navy.
So a press release gets put
out, the famous press release
announcing that they
found this saucer.
The headline is now a legend.
>>NOORY: It's in the Roswell
newspaper at the time.
>>BASSETT: Pristine copies
of that original paper
sell for some serious dollars.
Well, of course, this
catches the political class
by surprise, Truman, of course.
They were-- oh, my
god, what's happened?
So they send an order,
almost certainly from Truman,
to Roger Ramey -- you
have got to fix that.
They fixed it the same day.
They pulled some people
into Dallas-Fort Worth.
They hold another
press conference.
They hold up a raw wind
balloon and say, no, it
was a raw wind balloon.
We mistook it.
Now, again, if that
had been done today,
if they had been trying
to pull that stunt today,
a million bloggers
who would have
rained down hell upon them.
>>NOORY: The social network
would have crushed them.
>>BASSETT: Yes.
>>NOORY: And the media
probably would have.
>>BASSETT: You're saying that
your intelligence officer
mistook the silver saucer
craft for this Reynolds Wrap?
Is that what you're
trying to tell me?
But back then,
remember, it was '47.
And people believed
in this government
that had defeated
the Axis powers, that
was building this
wonderful economy at home.
They believed them.
And so that is, for me,
the informal beginning
of the truth embargo.
And one of the interesting
things about it
is that the moment
that first headline
goes out over the Reuters
AP, whatever, reporters were
getting into trains
and planes and cars,
and they were
heading for Roswell.
>>NOORY: They were
coming this way.
>>BASSETT: They
were on their way.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>BASSETT: And if somehow
things had not gotten together
quickly enough, and Ramey
had needed another 24 hours,
and those press had
gotten and started
interviewing the
people in the town,
it would've been out in '47.
>>NOORY: Oh, my gosh, yeah.
>>BASSETT: The ET presence
would have been known in '47.
And somebody is going to write
a book-- probably not me,
because I don't sit still well.
But it'll be somebody,
maybe Richard Dolan.
And it'll be a book about what
the 20th century's second half
would have been like if the ET
announcement had occurred then
as opposed to not yet now.
>>NOORY: Right.
And they didn't back down.
>>BASSETT: It could
have been awful.
It could have been a disaster.
It could have led
to nuclear war.
Or it could have
avoided the Cold War.
It could have
transformed the society.
We wouldn't have spent
15, 20 trillion dollars
on the whole Cold War
thing and the proxy wars.
That money could have gone to
develop the human condition.
That would be a hell of a book.
But that's why that
event is so profound.
That is the beginning,
the informal beginning,
of the truth embargo.
>>NOORY: Rendlesham.
Tell us about that.
>>BASSETT: Rendlesham,
another case
in which an incident takes
place near a facility that's
nuclear connected.
It happens 33 years later.
>>NOORY: Americans are there.
>>BASSETT: Oh,
Americans are involved,
the British are involved.
It's an extraordinary
event, many witnesses.
Recordings, notes, and so forth.
So this had a lot of
substance in a time
when the media was
far more developed.
And so Rendlesham, the
Bentwaters case, all of that
had the potential to
maybe blow this issue out.
But on the other hand, by
1980, the truth embargo
was well established.
All the bells and
whistles were in place,
the media was pretty
much under control.
And so they got through
Rendlesham Forest.
But the reason it's so
important is it never went away.
>>NOORY: And
incredible witnesses.
>>BASSETT: Books were
written, most of the witnesses
are still alive.
It's turning up in a
number of forums, so--
and that case is easier to
revisit than Roswell now.
And so Bentwaters is
certainly a significant threat
to the truth embargo.
And something could
emerge out of that
that could help end this--
>>NOORY: Incredible story,
what they witnessed out there
in the forest.
And it took off.
They got close
enough to touch it.
>>BASSETT: Yes.
>>NOORY: They got sick.
It's got it all.
>>BASSETT: You know
what I love about this?
Again, tried and
true methods, right?
But these methods become more
ludicrous with each passing
decade.
As you know, the Army
Air Force, the Air Force
have come up with three
explanations for Roswell.
Every 10 years or 15 years,
they would change it.
>>NOORY: Right, they
keep changing it.
>>BASSETT: The last one
was the Mogul balloon,
which doesn't help
the credibility.
It's the same thing
with Bentwaters.
Debunkers jumped in, of
course, doing their thing.
And I think the very first
one was the lighthouse.
They did the lighthouse thing.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>BASSETT: And then there
was a thing-- no, there
was-- I think it
was a number of guys
were out, driving
around in cars.
And they were just having a good
time, and it was car lights.
But the one I love
the most-- and this
came out about three
years ago, made a story
in the British press-- a farmer
came forward and stated that,
on the night of these events,
that he had a fertilizer
truck that he was moving,
and the thing caught on fire.
And so what they were seeing
was flaming fertilizer.
I kid you not.
>>NOORY: Unbelievable.
>>BASSETT: And so
in other words,
things haven't really changed.
>>NOORY: Talk about the manure
they've thrown our way, right?
>>BASSETT: Yeah, major events,
unbelievable explanations.
The people go along with it.
The press are to
go along with it,
because it's institutionalized.
But yet-- and this
is where the internet
comes in-- all this
ludicrousness used to just fade
into the background
in the old days.
>>NOORY: Not anymore.
>>BASSETT: Not anymore.
You want to make a
stupid explanation?
Fine.
It will live on the internet
until the day you die.
>>NOORY: Exactly.
1997, Phoenix-- an
incredible story,
where even the governor at
the time made a mockery of it
and changed his mind.
>>BASSETT: Another major event,
all the same kind of patterns.
But now it's '97, the beginning
of the internet explosion
and email and everything else
and, of course, cable news.
So now you have
an event happening
in an even more intense,
rich environment.
The challenge was formidable.
So this event, of
course, got huge press.
>>NOORY: A lot of witnesses.
>>BASSETT: A lot of witnesses.
>>BASSETT: Tons of witnesses.
There were two events, though,
one in the early evening,
one in the late evening.
Late evening was the
lights seen over the city.
The government, first of all,
denied that anything was there.
They denied that any
jets were in the area.
And then, later, they
realized, wait a minute.
That's not going to work.
And so they came back
and said, oh, yeah,
there were jets in the area.
They were dropping flares.
They used the flare.
Now, the flare explanation,
I think, has been debunked.
I don't think it was flares.
But it was a fairly
compelling option.
So they did all that.
>>NOORY: But why do
flares fly in unison?
>>BASSETT: A good question.
But they had no explanation
for the huge triangle that
flew across the entire state--
>>NOORY: That they all saw.
>>BASSETT: --from the north
to the south and then east,
that was seen by
a lot of people.
That one they couldn't explain.
So they said nothing.
Now, that's where
Frances Barwood comes in.
She jumps into the
middle of this.
She's kind of a bit of a rogue,
independent member of the city
council.
I think she was even
the chairman of council.
And she decided,
I'm not buying this.
And so she jumps into this,
which brings the press back in.
That made it a political story.
That expanded the whole
impact of Phoenix.
But ultimately, you have people
like the former governor--
>>NOORY: Fife Symington.
>>BASSETT: --Fife Symington III,
who did something very brave.
In an interview many years
later-- this was 2007,
'08-- he came forward
and said, look,
I'm sorry I made fun of it.
I was trying to sort of
defuse the situation.
>>NOORY: Because he had an alien
with him at a news conference,
right?
>>BASSETT: Yeah,
brought in a guy
with a big, giant alien
outfit, the whole nine yards.
Which, by the way, again,
'97, that's not going to fly.
Got a lot of blowback.
And they were going, ooh,
this doesn't work so well.
>>NOORY: What did we do wrong?
>>BASSETT: But he came back and
said, look, I saw the thing.
I was called out.
I'm the governor.
They called me-- something's
flying over Arizona.
They called him out, and
he watched it go over.
Now, again, what did the media
really have to do about that?
Was he called to the
Hill for a hearing?
Did the president
want to talk to him?
Did the Pentagon want to talk?
No, no, no.
You're just a former
governor, famous.
You saw a giant
triangle fly over.
It was probably just a
huge flock of black geese.
Whatever.
But you see, every
time that happens,
the sinews of the truth
embargo are stretched.
>>NOORY: It gets
crazier and crazier.
>>BASSETT: The
media is irritated,
and the public gets mad.
And so, in that sense,
particularly because
of its timing in '97, which
is really when-- '96, '97
is when I believe the exo
politics of the advocacy
movement gets going.
>>NOORY: Really kicked up.
>>BASSETT: It's kind
of a launch event,
and that's why it's
very important.
>>NOORY: Three incredible cases.
But there are many, many more.
>>BASSETT: Well,
there is one more area
that's the most
important of all.
And it's been featured a
lot in the last eight years.
And the reason it's important
is that it is unambiguously
unavoidable as a
massive news story
by any reporter,
editor, producer,
unless they're complete idiots.
And that is there is now
overwhelming evidence
that these craft-- in most
cases, almost certainly piloted
by the ETs-- have been tampering
with our nuclear weapon systems
over and over again.
And we have witnesses.
>>NOORY: And we have
witnesses there.
>>BASSETT: And
these witnesses are
captains in the Air Force with
SAC-based security clearances
who have given press
conferences and written books.
And the media's going, eh?
And the Congress is
going, I don't know.
And the president
has nothing to say.
But that's not
going away, either.
>>NOORY: And that's a
huge story, Stephen.
>>BASSETT: It's a huge story.
And the seminal book
is "UFOs and Nukes"
by Robert Hastings, one of
the most important books ever
written on this subject.
Anybody that reads
that book and says,
no news here, no
national interest here,
is obviously completely deluded.
And so that, though it
doesn't have the visuals
and it doesn't have
the specificity
of these other events, the
ongoing tampering of our nukes
and what that means is probably
the most important evidentiary
area of all and maybe
one of the things
that will, in fact, trigger
congressional hearings.
>>NOORY: And we will talk more
about congressional hearings
on our next edition of "Beyond
Belief" with Stephen Bassett.
You don't want to miss it.
Thanks for watching
"Beyond Belief."
[MUSIC PLAYING]